Add article about Django timeout (#73)
loadsmart/blog: content/posts/2022-11-02-how-to-fix-django-admin-timeouts/index.md

---
title: How to fix Django admin timeouts
author: Luiz Lima
twitter: umluizlima
layout: post
lang: en
path: /blog/how-to-fix-django-admin-timeouts
date: '2022-11-02'
comments: true
---

Have you ever noticed some Django admin page taking a long time to load? Maybe even ending in a timeout (http 504)?

> ![Example](./example.png)

Author: Image copied from: https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.1/ref/contrib/admin/#django.contrib.admin.ModelAdmin.fieldsets

This kind of issue should be uncommon in small, earlier projects. However, if it starts to happen and gets worse over time, one possible cause is that some of that entity’s relationships are editable on the page, which causes Django to fetch all instances in the database to populate the dropdown list.

### Use `readonly_fields`

> In this situation, the easy solution would be to just set those fields as `readonly_fields` in the page definition, like [this](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.1/ref/contrib/admin/#django.contrib.admin.ModelAdmin.readonly_fields).

Reviewer: I would avoid using "this" and "here" as the call-to-action, because of SEO/indexing purposes:
 
```suggestion
In this situation, the easiest solution would be to just set those fields as [`readonly_fields`](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.1/ref/contrib/admin/#django.contrib.admin.ModelAdmin.readonly_fields) in the page definition.
```

```python
class CustomAdmin(admin.ModelAdmin):
    readonly_fields = (
        "some_field", # ForeignKey with lots of instances
    )
```

With it, the field will be rendered on the admin page just as its current value, statically.

## Must be editable?

If having a foreign key as an editable field on the admin is a must for your use case, consider these options:

### Use `raw_id_fields`

> Setting the field as a raw id field still allow its editing as just the id value of the related entity, like [this](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.1/ref/contrib/admin/#django.contrib.admin.ModelAdmin.raw_id_fields):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Setting the field as a [raw id field](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.1/ref/contrib/admin/#django.contrib.admin.ModelAdmin.raw_id_fields) still allows its editing as just the id value of the related entity:
```

```python
class CustomAdmin(admin.ModelAdmin):
    raw_id_fields = (
        "some_field", # ForeignKey with lots of instances
    )
```

It will render an input field on the admin with the possibility of opening a popup to search for the desired instance;

### Use custom filters

> Filtering its queryset to a smaller, more specific, set of instances, like [this](https://code.djangoproject.com/ticket/28311):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Filtering its queryset to a smaller, more specific, set of instances, like the example mentioned in [Django ticket #28311](https://code.djangoproject.com/ticket/28311):
```

> Filtering its queryset to a smaller, more specific, set of instances, like the example mentioned in [Django ticket #28311](https://code.djangoproject.com/ticket/28311):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Filtering a queryset to a smaller, more specific set of instances, like the example mentioned in [Django ticket #28311](https://code.djangoproject.com/ticket/28311) could also help speed up Admin pages:
```
